{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb360\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs30\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 1;}{\s2\sb360\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs30\lang1031 \sbasedon1\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb360\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs26\lang1031 
\sbasedon2\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb240\sa240\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\i\f4\fs26\lang1031 \sbasedon3\snext4 heading 4;}{\s5\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 
\b\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 5;}{\s6\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs20\ul\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 6;}{
\s7\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \i\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 7;}{\s8\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \i\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 
heading 8;}{\s9\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \i\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\fi-454\li454\tx454\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 Normal Indent;}{\s16\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 
index 1;}{\s17\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext16 index heading;}{\s18\sb240\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext18 footer;}{\s19\sb240\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 
\f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext19 header;}{\*\cs20 \additive\fs16\up6 \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s21\fi-284\li284\tx284\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext21 footnote text;}{
\s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 deutsch;}}{\info{\author Helmut Brammerts}{\operator hb}{\creatim\yr1993\mo10\dy2\hr11\min46}{\revtim\yr1996\mo1\dy4\hr14\min49}
{\printim\yr1995\mo1\dy4\hr11\min40}{\version28}{\edmins0}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49213}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1134 
\deftab709\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\makebackup\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\titlepg {\header \pard\plain \s19\qc\sb240\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 
\f4\fs22\lang1031 {\field{\*\fldinst PAGE}{\fldrslt 3}}
\par }{\footer \pard\plain \s18\qr\sb240\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs22\lang1031 
\par }{\footerf \pard\plain \s18\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\fs16 \tab \tab }{\field{\*\fldinst {\fs16  SAVEDATE \\@ "dd.MM.yyyy" \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt {\fs16 04.01.1996}}}{\fs16 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\fs32\lang1034 
International E-Mail Tandem Network
\par }\pard \qc\sb240\sa120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835 {\b\fs40\lang1034 ENG-ESP
\par }\pard \qc\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\b\i\fs26\lang1034 Los primeros pasos
\par }\pard \qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang1034 Para poder participar en el foro espa\'f1ol-ingl\'e9s de la Red T\'e1ndem por Correo Electr\'f3nico tienes que mandar
\par }\pard \sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang1034 el mensaje\tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang1034 subscribe eng-esp}{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang1034 a la direcci\'f3n\tab \tab }{\b\lang1034 majordomo@tandem.uni-trier.de}{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang1034 Recibir\'e1s el siguiente mensaje biling\'fce de bienvenida.}{\b\fs26\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qc\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\b\i\fs26\lang2057 The first steps
\par }\pard \qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237\tqr\tx11199 {\lang2057 To be able to take part in the English-Spanish forum of the E-Mail Tandem Network you must send
\par }\pard \qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 the message\tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 subscribe eng-esp}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard \box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 to the address\tab \tab }{\b\lang1034 majordomo@tandem.uni-trier.de}{\b\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 You will receive the following bilingual welcome message}{\lang1034 .
\par }\pard \qc\sb600\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\fs34\lang1034 Bienvenido/a en ENG-ESP   -   }{\b\fs34\lang2057 Welcome to ENG-ESP}{\b\fs34\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 ENG-ESP}{\lang1034  es un }{\b\lang1034 foro de discusi\'f3n espa\'f1ol-ingl\'e9s}{\lang1034  donde se encuentran personas que dominan una de las dos lenguas espa
\'f1ol e ingl\'e9s, est\'e1n aprendiendo la otra y desean conocer m\'e1s detalles sobre los/las participantes de los otros pa\'edses.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 ENG-ESP}{\lang2057  is a }{\b\lang2057 forum for discussion in Spanish and English}{\lang2057 
 in which people who have a command of one of the two languages are learning the other and wish to know more about members in other countries.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs30\lang1031 {\fs32 1.\tab El foro   -   The forum
\par }\pard\plain \qj\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 Para poder participar en la discusi\'f3n de este foro, lo \'fanico que tienes que hacer es enviar tus mensajes a }{\b\lang1034 la direcci\'f3
n del foro}{\lang1034 , y los ordenadores se encargar\'e1n de distribuirlas autom\'e1ticamente a los/las otros/as participantes.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 In order to take part in the discussion of this forum, the only thing you have to do is to send your messages to }{\b\lang2057 
the forum address}{\lang2057  and the computers will automatically send them on to all the other members.
\par }\pard\plain \sb240\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 La }{\b\lang1034 direcci\'f3n del foro}{\lang1034  es:\tab \line \tab }{\lang2057 The }{\b\lang2057 
address of the forum}{\lang2057  is:}{\lang1034 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang1034 eng-esp@tandem.uni-trier.de}{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 Para empezar, te sugerimos que, como novato/a, }{\b\lang1034 te presentes}{\lang1034  a los otros participantes escribiendo s\'f3
lo una lineas en tu lengua materna o, mejor a\'fan, en ambos idiomas. Es posible que as\'ed ya se pongan en contacto contigo otros participantes que por tener intereses comunes a los tuyos deseen saber algo m\'e1s de ti.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 To begin with, we suggest that, as a newcomer, you }{\b\lang2057 introduce yourself }{\lang2057 
to the other members writing just a few lines in your mother tongue, or better still, in both languages. It is possible that in this way other members might get in touch with you and, by having things in common, will find out more about you.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 En este foro podr\'e1s escribir sobre lo que quieras: podr\'e1s pedir y dar informaciones, contribuir c
on opiniones propias, relatar experiencias personales etc. Cada uno/a podr\'e1 escribir en su lengua materna, en el otro idioma o en los dos. Lo importante es que el n\'famero de contribuciones sea aproximado en ambos idiomas para que todos/as tengan m
\'e1s o menos las mismas oportunidades de leer y escribir en la lengua extranjera.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 
In this forum you will be able to write what you want: you can ask for and give information, give your own opinions, relate your personal experiences, etc. Each person can write in his/h
er own language, in the foreign language or in both. The important thing is that the number of contributions in both languages is more or less equal so that everyone has the same opportunity to read and write in the foreign language.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs30\lang1031 {\fs32 2.\tab Compa\'f1eros/as t\'e1ndem    -   Tandem partners
\par }\pard\plain \qj\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 Aprovechar\'e1s a\'fan m\'e1s si estableces correspondencia con un/a compa\'f1ero/a t\'e1ndem. (Se habla de }{\b\lang1034 t\'e1ndem}{\lang1034 
 cuando 2 personas de culturas distintas colaboran en el aprendizaje del idioma del compa\'f1ero o de la compa\'f1era.) Entre dos no solamente podr\'e9is tratar temas que no quer\'e1is compartir con todo el mundo, sino - lo que es m\'e1
s importante - tendr\'e9is la oportunidad de ayudaros mutuamente a trav\'e9s de correcciones, consejos, preguntas etc.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 You will benefit even more if you have a link with a tandem partner. (The term }{\b\lang2057 tandem}{\lang2057 
 is used when two people of different languages collaborate in the learning of their partner's language.) In pairs you can not only discuss topics that you may not want to share with everyone but also, what is even more impor
tant is that you will have the opportunity to give each other help through corrections, advice, questions, etc.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 Para que te podamos facilitar una pareja t\'e1ndem, puedes escribir un mensaje breve al }{\b\lang1034 servicio de facilitaci\'f3
n de parejas t\'e1ndem}{\lang1034 : }{\i\lang1034 \ldblquote Foro ENG-ESP. Lengua primera: espa\'f1ol. Aprendo ingl\'e9s. Busco compa\'f1ero/a t\'e1ndem.\rdblquote  }{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang2057 So that we can find a tandem partner for you, you can write a brief message to the \lquote }{\b\lang2057 dating agency}{\lang2057 \rquote : }{\i\lang2057 \ldblquote 
Forum ENG-ESP. My first language is English. I am learning Spanish. Looking for a tandem partner.\rdblquote }{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 La direcci\'f3n del }{\b\lang1034 servicio de facilitaci\'f3n de parejas}{\lang1034  es:\line \tab }{
\lang2057 The address of the }{\b\lang2057 \lquote dating agency\rquote }{\lang2057  is:\tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 tandem@slf.ruhr-uni-bochum.de
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang1034 Profesores}{\lang1034  que quieren incluir t\'e1ndem por corrreo electr\'f3nico en sus clases de ingl\'e9s o espa\'f1ol, deber\'ed
an ponerse en contacto con los moderadores de ENG-ESP (direcciones al final de este texto).}{\b\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 Teachers}{\lang1034 
 who want to include e-mail tandem in their Spanish or English classes, should contact both of the ENG-ESP coordinators (addresses at the end of this text).}{\b\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb360\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs30\lang1031 {\fs32 3.\tab Otros servicios de la red  -  Other network services
\par }\pard\plain \qj\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 En esta red tenemos como responsable de los asuntos administrativos un programa al que pod\'e9is mandar \'f3rdenes de diverso tipo. Pero estas \'f3
rdenes deber\'e1n estar bien formuladas (una orden por linea) para no confundir al programa. Por el momento el programa s\'f3lo entiende y \ldblquote habla\rdblquote  ingl\'e9s.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 
In this network we have a program which to take care of the administration to which you can send commands of different types. But these commands must be well formulated (one comm
and per line) so as not to confuse the program. At the present time the program only understands and \ldblquote speaks\rdblquote  English.
\par }\pard \s22\qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 La direcci\'f3n del }{\b\lang1034 programa de servicio}{\lang1034  es:
\par }\pard \s22\qj\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 \tab }{\lang2057 The address of this }{\b\lang2057 service program}{\lang2057  is:\tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 
majordomo@tandem.uni-trier.de
\par }\pard\plain \sb240\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 Por ejemplo, si no deseas recibir m\'e1s correo de ENG-ESP, le mandas esta \'f3rden:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 If, for example, you don't want to receive any more ENG-ESP mail, you can send it this command:
\par }\pard\plain \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang1034 unsubscribe eng-esp}{\lang1034 \tab \tab \tab para salir del foro para siempre\line }{\lang2057 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
to leave the forum permanently
\par }\pard \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 
\par }\pard \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 Otras \'f3rdenes importantes son:
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3544\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Other important commands are:
\par }\pard\plain \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 who eng-esp\tab \tab \tab }{\lang2057 para saber qui\'e9nes son los dem\'e1s participantes de ENG-ESP\line \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
to know who else is participating in ENG-ESP
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 help\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\lang1034 para saber m\'e1s sobre las \'f3rdenes de que el programa de \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab servicio dispone\line }{
\lang2057 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab to know more about the commands of the service program
\par }\pard \sb360\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 
\par }\pard \sb360\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 Para m\'e1s informaci\'f3n puedes dirigirte al foro ENG-ESP o a nosotros, los coordinadores de esta red parcial.
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 For further information you can contact ENG-ESP or us, the coordinators of this subnet.
\par }\pard\plain \sb240\tx3969 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 \'a1Que te diviertas!  -   }{\lang2057 Have fun!
\par }\pard \sb240\tx3969 {\b\lang1034 Juan Antonio Alvarez Gonz\'e1lez\tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 Jane Woodin\tab \tab }{\b\lang1034 \tab \line }{\lang1034 jaag@pinon.ccu.uniovi.es\tab \tab }{\lang2057 j.woodin@sheffield.ac.uk
\par }\pard \sb240\tx3969 {\lang1034 Facultad de Inform\'e1tica\tab \tab }{\lang2057 Modern Languages Teaching Centre}{\lang1034 \line Universidad de Oviedo\tab \tab }{\lang2057 The University of Sheffield}{\lang1034 \line E-33007 Oviedo\tab \tab }{\lang2057 
388 Glossop Road}{\lang1034 \line Espa\'f1a\tab \tab }{\lang2057 Sheffield S10 2JA}{\lang1034 \line \tab \tab }{\lang2057 United Kingdom
\par }\pard \sb240\tx3969 {\b\lang1034 Ana Ojanguren S\'e1nchez}{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \tx3969 {\lang1034 ana@etsiig.uniovi.es
\par }\pard \tx3969 {\lang2057 
\par }{\lang1034 Dpto. de Filolog\'eda Anglogerm\'e1nica y Francesca/E.T.S.I.I.G.
\par Universidad de Oviedo
\par E-33007 Oviedo
\par Espa\'f1a
\par }}