{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs32\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs32\lang1031 \sbasedon1\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs26\lang1031 
\sbasedon2\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb240\sa240\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\i\f4\fs26\lang1031 \sbasedon3\snext4 heading 4;}{\s5\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 
\b\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 5;}{\s6\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs20\ul\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 6;}{
\s7\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \i\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 7;}{\s8\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \i\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 
heading 8;}{\s9\li708\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \i\f4\fs20\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\fi-454\li454\tx454\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext15 Normal Indent;}{\s16\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 
index 1;}{\s17\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext16 index heading;}{\s18\sb120\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext18 footer;}{\s19\sb240\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 
\f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext19 header;}{\*\cs20 \additive\fs16\up6 \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s21\fi-284\li284\tx284\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext21 footnote text;}{
\s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 \sbasedon0\snext0 deutsch;}}{\info{\title International E-Mail Tandem Network}{\author hb}{\operator hb}{\creatim\yr1994\mo11\dy5\hr22\min43}
{\revtim\yr1995\mo1\dy4\hr11\min30}{\printim\yr1995\mo1\dy4\hr11\min30}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49213}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418 
\deftab709\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\makebackup\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery709\footery1021\colsx709\endnhere\titlepg {\header \pard\plain \s19\qc\sb240\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 
\f4\fs22\lang1031 {\field{\*\fldinst PAGE}{\fldrslt 2}}
\par }{\footer \pard\plain \s18\qr\sb120\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs22\lang1031 
\par }{\footerf \pard\plain \s18\qr\sb120\tqc\tx4819\tqr\tx9071 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\field{\*\fldinst {\fs16  TIME \\@ "dd.MM.yy" }}{\fldrslt {\fs16 08.01.96}}}{\fs16 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\fs32\lang1034 International E-Mail Tandem Network

\par }\pard \qc\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835 {\b\fs40\lang1034 RIBO-L
\par }\pard \qc\sb240\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\b\i\fs26\lang2057 Die ersten Schritte
\par }\pard \qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237\tqr\tx11199 {\lang2057 Um am deutsch-englischen Forum des Internationalen E-Mail-Tandem-Netzes teilnehmen zu k\'f6nnen, mu\'dft Du 
\par }\pard \sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 die Nachricht\tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 SUBSCRIBE RIBO-L Vorname Nachname}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 an die Adresse\tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 LISTSERV@uriacc.uri.edu
\par }\pard \sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 schicken. Du wirst dann den folgenden zweisprachigen Willkommenstext erhalten.
\par }\pard \qc\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\b\i\fs26\lang2057 The first steps
\par }\pard \qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237\tqr\tx11199 {\lang2057 To be able to take part in the English-German forum of the International E-Mail Tandem Network you must send
\par }\pard \sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 the message\tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 SUBSCRIBE RIBO-L First Name  Last Name}{\lang2057 
\par }\pard \qj\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 to the address\tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 LISTSERV@uriacc.uri.edu
\par }\pard \sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx6237 {\lang2057 You will receive the following bilingual welcome message}{\lang1034 .
\par }\pard \qc\sb360\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\fs32\lang1034 Willkommen bei RIBO-L   -   }{\b\fs32\lang2057 Welcome to RIBO-L}{\b\fs32\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b RIBO-L} ist ein {\b deutsch-englisches Diskussionsforum}, wo sich Leute treffen, die eine der beiden Sprachen Deutsch 
und Englisch beherrschen, die andere Sprache gerade lernen und au\'dferdem mehr \'fcber die Teilnehmer/innen aus den andern L\'e4ndern wissen wollen{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang2057 RIBO-L}{\lang2057  is a }{\b\lang2057 forum for discussion in German and English}{\lang2057 
 in which people who have a command of one of the two languages, are learning the other, and wish to know more about members in other countries.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs32\lang1031 1.\tab Das Forum  -  {\lang2057 The Forum}
\par \pard\plain \qj\sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Um an der Diskussion in diesem Forum teilnehmen zu k\'f6nnen, brauchst Du nur Deine Nachrichten an die {\b Forumsadresse} zu senden; die Computer \'fc
bernehmen es dann, sie automatisch an die anderen Teilnehmer/innen weiterzuleiten.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 In order to take part in the discussion of this forum, the only thing you have to do is to send your messages to }{\b\lang2057 
the forum address}{\lang2057  and the computers will automatically send them on to all the other members.
\par }\pard\plain \sb240\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp100 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Die {\b Forumsadresse} ist:{\lang1034 \tab \line \tab }{\lang2057 The }{\b\lang2057 address of the forum}{\lang2057  is:}
{\lang1034 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang1034 RIBO-L@uriacc.uri.edu}{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 Als Neue/r im Forum solltest Du Dich erst einmal den anderen Teilnehmern kurz {\b vorstellen}: nur ein paar Zeilen in Deiner Muttersprache oder - besser n
och - in beiden Sprachen. Vielleicht setzen sich dann schon andere Teilnehmer/innen mit Dir in Verbindung, die \'e4hnliche Interessen haben wie Du und mehr von Dir wissen wollen.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 To begin with, we suggest that, as a newcomer, you }{\b\lang2057 introduce yourself }{\lang2057 
to the other members writing just a few lines in your mother tongue, or better still, in both languages. It is possible that in this way other members might get in touch with you and, by having things in common, will find out more about you.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 In diesem Forum kannst Du \'fcbrigens \'fc
ber alles schreiben: Du kannst um Informationen bitten, selbst Informationen und Meinungen einbringen, Du kannst \'fcber pers\'f6nliche Erfahrungen berichten usw. Jede/r kann in seiner Muttersprache schreiben, in der Fremdsprache oder auch in beiden
 - wichtig ist nur, da\'df sich die Anzahl der Beitr\'e4ge in beiden Sprachen ungef\'e4hr die Waage h\'e4lt, damit alle etwa die gleichen Chancen erhalten, in der Fremdsprache zu lesen und zu schreiben.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 In this forum you will be able to write what you want: you can ask
 for and give information, give your own opinions, relate your personal experiences, etc. Each person can write in his/her own language, in the foreign language or in both. The important thing is that the number of contributions in both languages is more 
or less equal so that everyone has the same opportunity to read and write in the foreign language.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs32\lang1031 2.\tab Tandempartner    -   {\lang2057 Tandem Partners}
\par \pard\plain \qj\sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Noch mehr kannst Du lernen, wenn Du mit einem Tandempartner oder einer Tandempartnerin korrespondierst. (Von {\b Tandem} sp
richt man, wenn zwei Personen aus verschiedenen Kulturen zusam\-men\-arbeiten, um voneinander die Sprache des Partners oder der Partnerin zu lernen.) Zu zweit k\'f6
nnt Ihr nicht nur Themen ansprechen, die Ihr nicht mit allen teilen wollt; wichtiger ist, da\'df Ihr Euch gegenseitig helfen k\'f6nnt durch Korrekturen, Hinweise, Fragen usw.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 You will benefit even more if you have a link with a tandem partner. (The term }{\b\lang2057 tandem}{\lang2057 
 is used when two people of different languages collaborate in the learning of their partner's lang
uage.) In pairs you can not only discuss topics that you may not want to share with everyone but also, what is even more important, is that you will have the opportunity to give each other help through corrections, advice, questions, etc.
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Damit wir Dir eine/n Tandempartner/in vermitteln k\'f6nnen, schreib die folgende kurze Nachricht an die {\b Tandempartner-Vermittlung}: {\i \ldblquote 
Forum RIBO-L. Erstprache Deutsch. Ich lerne Englisch. Suche Tandempartner/in.\rdblquote }{\lang1034 
\par }\pard \qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang2057 So that we can find a tandem partner for you, you should write the following brief message to the \lquote }{\b\lang2057 dating agency}{\lang2057 \rquote : }{
\i\lang2057 \ldblquote Forum RIBO-L. My first language is English. I am learning German. Looking for a tandem partner.\rdblquote 
\par }\pard \qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Die Adresse der {\b Partnervermittlung} ist:
\par \pard \s22\qj\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \tab {\lang2057 The address of the }{\b\lang2057 \lquote dating agency\rquote }{\lang2057  is:\tab \tab \tab       }{\b\lang2057 
TANDEM@slf.ruhr-uni-bochum.de
\par }\pard\plain \qj\sb240\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang1034 Lehrer/innen}{\lang1034 , die E-Mail-Tandem in Ihren Englisch- bzw. Deutschunterricht einbauen wollen, sollten mit }{\b\lang1034 
beiden}{\lang1034  Koordinatoren von RIBO-L Kontakt aufnehmen (Adressen am Ende dieses Textes).
\par }\pard \qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 Teachers}{\lang1034  who want to include e-mail tandem in their German or English classes, should contact }{\b\lang1034 both}{\lang1034 
 of the RIBO-L coordinators (addresses at the end of this text).}{\b\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs32\lang1031 3.\tab Andere Dienste des Netzes  -  {\lang2057 Other Network Services}
\par \pard\plain \qj\sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 In diesem Netz steht Euch und uns f\'fcr Verwaltungsaufgaben ein Programm zur Verf\'fcgung, dem ihr die verschiedensten Befehle schicken k\'f6
nnt. Damit das Programm nicht verwirrt wird, m\'fcssen diese Befehle aber klar formuliert sein (ein Befehl pro Zeile). Zur Zeit versteht und \ldblquote spricht\rdblquote  das Programm nur Englisch.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 In this network we have a program to take c
are of the administration to which you can send commands of different types. But these commands must be well formulated (one command per line) so as not to confuse the program. At the present time the program only understands and \ldblquote speaks
\rdblquote  English.
\par }\pard \s22\qj\sb120\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 Die Adresse des {\b Dienstprogramms} ist:
\par \pard \s22\qj\box\brdrsh\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \tab {\lang2057 The address of this }{\b\lang2057 service program}{\lang2057  is:\tab \tab \tab }{\b\lang2057 LISTSERV@uriacc.uri.edu
\par }\pard\plain \sb240\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Wenn Du zum Beispiel keine Post mehr von RIBO-L erhalten willst, schickst Du ihm einen der beiden folgenden Befehle:{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 If, for example, you don't want to receive any more RIBO-L mail, you can send it one of these two commands:
\par }\pard\plain \sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang1034 SIGNOFF  RIBO-L}{\lang1034 \tab \tab \tab }um ganz aus dem Forum auszuscheiden{\lang1034 \line }{\lang2057 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
to leave the network permanently
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 SET  RIBO-L  NOMAIL  \tab \tab }um zeitweise auszuscheiden (wegen Urlaub usw.){\lang1034 \line }{\lang2057 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
to leave the network temporarily (for holidays, for \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab example)
\par }\pard \tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\lang1034 Andere wichtige Befehle sind:\line \tab Other }{\lang2057 important}{\lang1034  commands are:}{\b\lang1034 
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 SET  RIBO-L  MAIL \tab \tab }{\lang1034 \tab }um sich (etwa nach den Ferien) zur\'fcckzumelden{\lang1034 \line }{\b\lang2057 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\lang2057 \tab 
\tab to return to the network after a break
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang2057 REVIEW RIBO-L COUNTRIES\tab }{\lang2057 um zu erfahren, wer sonst noch an RIBO-L teilnimmt\line \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab 
to find out who else is participating in RIBO-L
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 HELP\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }um zu erfahren, welche Befehle das Dienstprogramm sonst \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab noch versteht{\lang1034 \line }{\lang2057 \tab 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab to know more about the commands of the service \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab program
\par }\pard\plain \s1\sb240\sa120\keepn\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \b\f4\fs32\lang1031 4.\tab Datenbank   -   Database
\par \pard\plain \qj\sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Zu RIBO-L wird es bald auch eine {\b Datenbank} geben, in der nicht nur alle Eure Beitr\'e4
ge archiviert, sondern vor allem weitere Hinweise und Materialien f\'fcr Eure Tandemarbeit gesammelt werden; ihr k\'f6nnt auch selbst Texte beisteuern.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 Soo
n RIBO-L will have a database in which not only your own contributions to the forum will be stored but also all kinds of advice and material for your tandem work; you too can contribute by providing texts to work on. 
\par }\pard\plain \sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 Es gibt besondere Befehle f\'fcr die Steuerung der Datenbank, z. B.:{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 There are specific commands for the database, e.g.:
\par }\pard\plain \sb120\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\b\lang1034 INDEX  RIBO-L}{\lang1034 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab }um sich \'fcber den Inhalt der Datenbank zu informieren{\lang1034 \line }{\lang2057 \tab 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab to find out about the contents of the database
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 {\b\lang1034 GET  RIBO-L }{\lang1034  <}Name-einer-Datei{\lang1034 >\tab \tab }um eine Datei aus der Datenbank zu bekommen{\lang1034 \line }{\b\lang2057 GET  RIBO-L }{\lang2057 
 <name-of-a-file>\tab \tab \tab to obtain a file from the database
\par }\pard \sb60\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 Um eine Datei in die Datenbank zu bringen, setz Dich bitte mit den Koordinatoren in Verbindung.
\par \pard \li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 To put a file into the database, please contact the coordinators.
\par \pard \sb360\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 Wenn Du weitere Fragen hast, wende Dich an das Forum RIBO-L oder an uns, die Koordinatoren dieses Teilnetzes.{\lang1034 
\par }\pard\plain \s22\qj\li567\tx567\tx1134\tx1701\tx2268\tx2835\tx3402\tx3969\tx4536\tx5103 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang2057 For further information you can contact RIBO-L or us, the coordinators of this subnet.
\par }\pard\plain \tx3969 \f4\fs22\lang1031 {\lang1034 Viel Spa\'df!  \endash \endash    }{\lang2057 Have fun!
\par }\pard \sb240\tx3969 {\b Norbert Hedderich\tab Helmut Brammerts}\line hedderic@uriacc.uri.edu              \tab BrammerH@slf.ruhr-uni-bochum.de
\par \pard \tx3969 
\par \pard \tx3969 Department of Languages\tab Seminar f\'fcr Sprachlehrforschung\line University of Rhode Island\tab Ruhr-Universit\'e4t Bochum\line Kingston, RI 02881  USA\tab D-44780 Bochum
\par }